Okay we'd like to do a quick code review
on my Spring Boot MongoDB example
application so this is up on GitHub and
you can find it under my repository
springframeworkguru /spring-boot-mongodb pretty creative name there.
This is an example Spring Boot
application connect to MongoDB, not
necessarily running in Docker but it can connect to any MongoDB
database so let's take a quick look at
the code in it, do a quick code review so I
already have it loaded up and IntelliJ
so let's start up from the domain up and
what I have is a Product and this is a
standard mapping class for Spring
mapping out to a Mongo document. So no
big mystery there we just have a
Product class with an id, description, price and imageUrl. I said nothing
terribly exciting there, now I do have a
couple converters so I am using a form,
command form some people call it, or
command object to back it so this
converts it back and forth so here's my
ProductForm, it's a command so really
the biggest difference there is that we
are treating the ID as a String because
the Mongo database type does not really
transfer over to the web here very well.
So we do need to convert that back and
forth so next thing to look at is our
standard Spring MVC controller, so this
is a controller that's going to be facing
out to the web and handling web requests
for us. It did jump up a little bit and
if you're following along this pattern
that's going to look very very familiar.
So I have a service layer that interacts
with my controller layer so there's my
interface for the service and then
there's my implementation of it and I am
using Spring Data repositories for this
and almost also wiring in my convertor
so I wire in the two dependencies. One is
the ProductRepository which is
provided by Spring Data and this is the
Mongo implementation that I am using
and everything's wired up and then
finally we have a couple Thymeleaf
templates here that we use to show the
data so I'm not going to get into all
the details here but you can see what's
going on here so nothing too terribly
creative here. Kind of a quick and dirty
to get this working it is not production
grade by any means and then let's take a
quick look at the dependencies so you
can see they're in line 17, I am in fact
running Spring Boot 1.5.1 and that
is the most current release of Spring
Boot at the time of writing or at the
time of recording I should say and
bringing in a couple of dependencies
and these are important so I'm bringing
the Spring Boot Starter Data for MongoDB
as well as Thymeleaf, web and then of course
the test and this POM is fairly
untouched since I pulled it off of Josh
Long's favorite web site, spring.start.io
Oh I'm sorry, start.spring.io
Messed up that URL. So you can go down
and grab this at any time. So let's go
ahead and take this for a spin, then what I'm
going to do so I have a command line
ready over here and I have docker where
you got there so that's a standard run
command for Docker. So docker run map out
the ports for the latest image of Mongo
and the -d parameter tells it to run it
in the background so that's now running,
I can do docker ps see that is running
and let's do docker logs -f. I'm going
to give it the image name here and paste
that in. Now we can see that that is running. Now
let's bounce over to IntelliJ and I am
going to start up my Spring Boot
application, you can see that Spring Boot
is initializing and pretty light project
so it's going to come up pretty quick
and it is running on Tomcat now if I look
at the window you can see that I have a
new connection established to Docker
I don't have the log level turned up on
this so it won't see any database
activity and let's come over here and
localhost 8080 and that's going to do a
redirect to the product list and I did
not initialize any data in the database
so but I can't come in, create a new
product. New product, $22 and URL
it's not doing any data type
checkings there so it will show me
that this is created, this is the Mongo
ID that was created so now if I come
back over here I can see that it is
listed and should I want to edit it and
let's say to do new product 222 and I am going to submit it and we
can see that has been updated and
if I come back to the index, again it
redirects to product/list but since I
don't have too much interesting here and
it shows that that update has been
persisted in that is getting pulled out
of the Mongo database.